IP allowlisting for serverless (#16910)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/cockroachcloud/connect-to-your-cluster.md

---
title: Connect to a CockroachDB Cloud Dedicated Cluster
summary: Learn how to connect and start interacting with your cluster.
toc: true
docs_area: deploy
---

{% include cockroachcloud/filter-tabs/crdb-cloud-connection.md %}

> This page shows you how to connect to your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster. This includes the administrative task of creating allowed networks to support SQL client connects, as well as the steps for connecting to the cluster with CockroachDB's [built-in SQL client](../{{site.current_cloud_version}}/cockroach-sql.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page shows you how to connect to your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster. This includes the administrative task of configuring allowed networks to support SQL client connections, as well as the steps for connecting to the cluster with CockroachDB's [built-in SQL client](../{{site.current_cloud_version}}/cockroach-sql.html).
```

- Allowed IP address ranges on the internet.
- Cloud-provider-specific peer networking options:
    - Google Cloud Platform (GCP) VPC Peering
    - Amazon Web Services (AWS) Private link

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Removing or adding an authorized network on your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster may take a few seconds to take effect.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include cockroachcloud/authorize-your-clusters-networks.md %}

1. Select whether the network can connect to the cluster's **DB Console to monitor the cluster**, **CockroachDB Client to access databases**, or both.

    The DB Console is where you can observe your cluster's health and performance. For more information, see [DB Console Overview](../{{site.current_cloud_version}}/ui-overview.html).

1. Click **Apply**.

### Establish GCP VPC Peering or AWS PrivateLink

VPC peering is only available for GCP clusters, and AWS PrivateLink is only available for AWS clusters. 

**Prerequisite:**

> You must create the VPC Peering or AWS PrivateLink connectionk in your GCP or AWS console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must create the VPC Peering or AWS PrivateLink connection in your GCP project or AWS account.
```

## Authorize your network

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> Removing or adding an authorized network on your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster may take several seconds to take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Removing or adding an authorized network on your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster may take a few seconds to take effect.
```

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include cockroachcloud/authorize-your-clusters-networks.md %}

> 1. Select whether the network can connect to the cluster's **DB Console to monitor the cluster**, **CockroachDB Client to access databases**, or both.

Reviewer: This point should also go into the new IP allowlisting page as it's pertinent to that. Note that it only applies to dedicated since DB Console is not available on Serverless yet.

> 1. Navigate to your cluster's **Networking > PrivateLink** tab.

Reviewer: Shouldn't AWS PrivateLink stuff just link to the new page you've created on that topic?
